--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Title : Emperical Project for BEE2041
        A Machine Learning Exploration of QB Peformance
Author : Kaden Lam 
Date : 2025-04-08
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Introduction

This project analyses quarterback performance using various causal inference and 
machine learning methods. The project builds on statistical models to uncover 
treatment effects and explores heterogeneity using causal forests and SHAP values.  
Both tabular summaries and graphical results are included.

## Repository Overview

This repository is structured as follows:
├── README
├── Makefile
├── blog
└── project folder
    ├── outputs

All data and source code are contained in project folder and all outputs are automatically exported to outputs. A pdf generated version of the source code is also stored within the project folder.

## Running Instructions 
To reproduce all the findings, if make is available, simply run the command "make" at the command line . Before doing so, you'll only need to change the directory path defined by the variable ROOT within the main Python file located in the project folder directory.

Alternatively, if make is not available, the following step should be followed:
    (1) Run the code: "jupyter nbconvert --to notebook --execute "Source code.ipynb" --output "replicated_code.ipynb" in the source directory after changing the ROOT directory in the code 

This has been tested using Python 3.11.5  within a Jupyter Notebook environment on macOS using Bash. Within python, a number of additional libraries are required. These libraries are shown below, along with its version number used to generate the original results:
> pandas 2.0.3
> numpy 1.24.3
> matplotlib 3.7.2
> econml 0.15.0
> scikit-learn 1.3.0
> statsmodels 0.14.0
> shap 0.43.0

## More resources

College Quarterback Data has been obtained here: https://www.sports-reference.com/cfb/years/2024-passing.html 

## About

This repository was generated by Ho Ming Kaden Lam 